All right, so let's talk about declaring and using
List and ArrayList instances.
So in Section 5, we talked about arrays
and using some of the methods on the List
to manipulate Aarrays.
In this video, we are going to revisit the List interface,
as well as talk about the java.util.ArrayList.
Now that we are freshly armed with the knowledge
of the differences between interfaces and classes,
let's look at the List and ArrayList types together.
All right, so let's start talking about the java.util.List.
I'm gonna bring up the Java doc's description
shortly for it, but the declaration of java.util.List
is an interface that extends the Collection interface.
So you can say we've got public interface List,
diamond operator E, extends Collection, diamond operator E.
So swinging back to the documentation,
you can see the description throughout there,
and just to make it a bit more easy to understand,
I'm going to read out a definition
which is slightly different to this one.
So java.util.List is an ordered collection.
The user of this interface has precise control
over where in the list, each element is inserted.
The user can access elements by their integer index,
and search for elements in the list.
Unlike sets, lists typically allow duplicate elements,
and they typically also allow multiple null elements,
if they allow null elements at all.
So I've got the link to this page,
which you can see in the resources section,
of this video, so if you need to access that,
then check out that link.
So that was List,
let's now look at the ArrayList, java.util.ArrayList.
So this is a class that extends the AbstractList,
and implements the List among other interfaces.
And you can see an example there,
public class Array List, diamond operator E
extends AbstractList, diamond operator E,
implements List, diamond operator E, RandomAccess,
Cloneable, and java.io.Serializable.
Let's now bring up the Java docs for ArrayList,
link is also in the resources section for this video.
So java.util.ArrayList is a resizable-array implementation
of the List Interface.
It implements all optional list operations,
and permits all elements, including null.
In addition to implementing the List interface,
this class provides methods to manipulate
the size of the array,
that is used internally to store the list.
So this list is roughly equivalent to Vector,
except that it's unsynchronized.
Importantly, note that ArrayLists
do not support primitive data types.
You will have to use the primitive data wrapper classes.
Also, swinging back to (mumbles) now,
I've created a new project, called ArrayList,
let's create a new class now,
and we'll call this one List Declaration.
(clicking keys)
From this code, you can see
that I've imported java.util.ArrayList,
as well as java.util.List, and I've also declared
some local variables of top list or ArrayList.
Know this also that most of the declarations
are using generics,
specifying a type in the diamond operator,
to declare a type for a parameterized type.
So why use generics?
We did have a bit of a discussion about this previously,
but generics enable types, classes and interfaces,
to be parameters when defining classes,
interfaces and methods.
Similar to parameters used in method declarations,
these type parameters provide a way for you to re-use
the same code with different types of inputs.
Before Java 5, an ArrayList was a collection
of any object you wanted to put in there.
If you were always putting a String element
in the ArrayList, you'd have no way to enforcing,
or of enforcing this rule,
and you always had to cast to a String,
when you retrieved an element from the ArrayList.
Java 5 introduced a generic ArrayList
which allows the person using an ArrayList in their code
to provide a type for the ArrayList.
You can create your own types that are parameterized.
The ArrayList class was changed to Java 5 to be such a type,
allowing the consumer of the type
to decide what elements are permissible,
when adding elements to the collection,
prompting the compiler to do type-checking.
Generics and parameterized types and methods
aren't part of the 1Z0-815 exam,
they are part of the second one, 1Z0-816,
which I'll be doing in a second course,
but with that said,
you should still recognise the syntax and impact,
of defining your type in a variable declaration.
That's still gonna be of benefit to you
when trying to pass this exam, the 1Z0-815.
So some of the benefits gained by declaring your type.
Firstly, stronger type checks at compile time,
elimination of casts,
also enabling programmers to implement generic algorithms.
So we know that we cannot instantiate an interface,
so we cannot create a List instance.
We can create an instance of a class
that implements the List interface
and assign it to the the List type,
which we've actually done in multiple examples
in the Section 5 videos.
So let's now add some code to the main method of this class,
and right down at bottom after the declarations.
All right, so there's the code that I pasted in.
So in this code I'm demonstrating three ways
to instantiate an ArrayList, two of which are typed.
Well there you cannot instantiate List objects,
you can assign objects to List variables, as shown.
So you can see after our declarations,
we got an instantiation of ArrayList objects,
we're intializing a non-typed ArrayList
using a no args constructor, on line 26.
Moving down, we're intializing the string-typed ArrayList,
using the (mumbles), which sets the initial capacity
of the ArrayList.
Next, we're initialising the the integer-typed ArrayList,
using the collections parameter,
which passes values to the ArrayList.
You can leave the type out of right hand diamond operator,
as you can see on line 37.
So notice that I've left the diamond operator
out of the right hand side of the line 40,
this does generate a warning, but it will compile.
And, if you go down, you can't create a List object
but you can set objects
that implement List to a List variable.
You can see I'm doing that on that code below.
That's in the video here, in the next one
we're gonna start comparing Arrays and ArrayLists,
specifically the (mumbles) functionality
and the equivalent ArrayList methods.
See you in the next video.